.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Aequor Project
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd December 29, 2025
.Dt AEQUOR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm aequor
.Nd Aequor Cognitive Orchestration Platform CLI
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm aequor
.Op Fl -help | Fl -version
.Ar command
.Op Ar args
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm aequor
command provides access to the Aequor Cognitive Orchestration Platform,
a universal AI orchestration system that treats AI requests as constraint
satisfaction problems.
.Pp
Aequor provides privacy-preserving intent encoding, semantic caching,
continuous learning through shadow logging, and intelligent routing between
local and cloud models.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display help for the CLI or a specific command.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Display the version number.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm query Op Ar query
Execute a query with intelligent routing.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-t, --trace"
.It Fl t , Fl -trace
Show routing trace.
.It Fl b , Fl -backend Ar backend
Force backend (local/cloud/auto).
.It Fl m , Fl -model Ar model
Use specific model.
.It Fl f , Fl -format Ar format
Output format (text/json).
.It Fl -no-cache
Bypass cache.
.El
.It Cm chat
Start interactive chat session.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-b, --backend <backend>"
.It Fl b , Fl -backend Ar backend
Force backend (local/cloud/auto).
.It Fl m , Fl -model Ar model
Use specific model.
.It Fl -no-cache
Bypass cache.
.It Fl -history Ar file
Load chat history.
.El
.It Cm status
Show system status.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-c, --components"
.It Fl c , Fl -components
Show component status.
.It Fl m , Fl -metrics
Show performance metrics.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Verbose output.
.El
.It Cm privacy
Analyze query privacy and classification.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-e, --encode"
.It Fl e , Fl -encode
Generate intent vector.
.It Fl -epsilon Ar value
Privacy parameter for encoding (default: 1.0).
.It Fl d , Fl -detailed
Show detailed analysis.
.It Fl c , Fl -classify
Show classification.
.It Fl f , Fl -format Ar format
Output format (text/json).
.El
.It Cm cache
Manage semantic cache.
Subcommands:
.Bl -tag -width "stats"
.It Cm stats
Show cache statistics.
.It Cm clear
Clear cache.
.It Cm warm
Warm cache with common queries.
.It Cm invalidate Ar pattern
Invalidate cache entries by pattern.
.El
.It Cm cartridge
Manage knowledge cartridges.
Subcommands:
.Bl -tag -width "list"
.It Cm list
List installed cartridges.
.It Cm install Ar source
Install a cartridge from file or URL.
.It Cm load Ar name
Load (enable) a cartridge.
.It Cm unload Ar name
Unload (disable) a cartridge.
.It Cm create Ar name
Create a new cartridge.
.El
.It Cm training
Training and adapter management.
Subcommands:
.Bl -tag -width "shadow"
.It Cm shadow
Show shadow logging status.
.It Cm train
Export training data for ORPO.
.It Cm deploy Ar adapter
Deploy trained adapter.
.It Cm rollback
Rollback to previous adapter version.
.It Cm ab-test Ar adapterA Ar adapterB
Run A/B test between adapters.
.El
.It Cm system
System information and management.
Subcommands:
.Bl -tag -width "info"
.It Cm info
Show system information.
.It Cm health
Check system health.
.It Cm metrics
Show performance metrics.
.El
.It Cm config
Manage configuration.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "--list"
.It Fl -list
List all configuration.
.It Fl -get Ar key
Get configuration value.
.It Fl -set Ar key Ar value
Set configuration value.
.It Fl -reset
Reset to defaults.
.El
.It Cm models
List available models.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-b, --backend"
.It Fl b , Fl -backend Ar backend
Filter by backend (local/cloud).
.It Fl d , Fl -detailed
Show detailed information.
.El
.It Cm cost
Show cost analysis.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-p, --period"
.It Fl p , Fl -period Ar period
Time period (today/week/month/all).
.It Fl b , Fl -by-backend
Break down by backend.
.El
.It Cm test
Run tests.
Options:
.Bl -tag -width "-u, --unit"
.It Fl u , Fl -unit
Run unit tests only.
.It Fl i , Fl -integration
Run integration tests only.
.It Fl -coverage
Show coverage report.
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Simple query
$ aequor query "What is the capital of France?"

# Interactive chat
$ aequor chat

# Check status
$ aequor status

# Analyze privacy
$ aequor privacy "My email is test@example.com"

# Cache management
$ aequor cache stats
$ aequor cache clear

# List cartridges
$ aequor cartridge list

# System health
$ aequor system health
.Ed
.Sh CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in platform-specific locations:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "Linux" -compact
.It Li Linux
~/.config/aequor/config.json
.It Li macOS
~/Library/Application Support/Aequor/config.json
.It Li Windows
%APPDATA%\\Aequor\\config.json
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "AEQUOR_BACKEND_CLOUD_API_KEY"
.It Ev AEQUOR_CACHE_ENABLED
Enable/disable caching.
.It Ev AEQUOR_PRIVACY_EPSILON
Privacy parameter for intent encoding.
.It Ev AEQUOR_BACKEND_CLOUD_API_KEY
OpenAI API key.
.It Ev AEQUOR_BACKEND_CLOUD_BASE_URL
Custom base URL for cloud API.
.It Ev AEQUOR_LOGGING_LEVEL
Log level (debug/info/warn/error).
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for Aequor is available at:
https://github.com/aequor/platform
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Aequor Project
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/aequor/platform/issues
